{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs48\lang9 Onwuka Rosario (W)\par
\fs40 TASK:Purposes of other programming languages\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Java :\b0  Developers use Java to construct applications in laptops, data centres, game consoles, scientific supercomputers, cell phones, and other devices.\b\fs48\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs40  Python:\b0 Python is  a computer programming language often used to build websites and software, automate tasks, and conduct data analysis.\fs48\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b\fs40 Solidity:\b0  The purpose of Solidity focuses solely on the creation of smart contracts, and the EVM is responsible for running the smart contracts.\b\fs48\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs40 C#:\b0  Like other general-purpose programming languages, C# can be used to create a number of different programs and applications: mobile apps, desktop apps, cloud-based services, websites, enterprise software and games. Lots and lots of games.\b\fs48\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}C++:\b0  C++ (or \ldblquote C-plus-plus\rdblquote ) is a general-purpose programming and coding language. C++ is used in developing browsers, operating systems, and applications, as well as in-game programming, software engineering, data structures, etc\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}C:\b0  C programming language is a machine-independent programming language that is mainly used to create many types of applications and operating systems such as Windows, and other complicated programs such as the Oracle database, Git, Python interpreter, and games\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}PHP: \b0 PHP (Hypertext Preprocessor) is known as a general-purpose scripting language that can be used to develop dynamic and interactive websites. It was among the first server-side languages that could be embedded into HTML, making it easier to add functionality to web pages without needing to call external files for data.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DART: \b0 Dart is a client-optimized language for developing fast apps on any platform. Its goal is to offer the most productive programming language for multi-platform development, paired with a flexible execution runtime platform for app frameworks.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}SQL: \b0 SQL is used to communicate with a database. According to ANSI (American National Standards Institute), it is the standard language for relational database management systems. SQL statements are used to perform tasks such as update data on a database, or retrieve data from a database.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}SWIFT: \b0 Swift is a robust and intuitive programming language created by Apple for building apps for iOS, Mac, Apple TV, and Apple Watch. It's designed to give developers more freedom than ever. Swift is easy to use and open source, so anyone with an idea can create something incredible.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}RUBY: \b0 Ruby is mainly used to build web applications and is useful for other programming projects. It is widely used for building servers and data processing, web scraping, and crawling. The leading framework used to run Ruby is Ruby on Rails, although that's not the only one\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}KOTLIN: \b0 Kotlin is a modern statically typed programming language used by over 60% of professional Android developers that helps boost productivity, developer satisfaction, and code safety.You can use Kotlin for developing not only Android but also iOS, backend, and web applications. Enjoy the benefits of sharing the common code among the platforms. Code safety. Less code and better readability lead to fewer errors.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}PEARL: \b0 Perl is a high-level, interpreted, general-purpose programming language originally developed for text manipulation. It borrows many features from C and Shell script and is used for system administration, networking, and other applications that involve user interfaces.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}SCALA:\b0 Scala is used in Data processing, distributed computing, and web development. It powers the data engineering infrastructure of many companies.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}OBJECTIVE-C: \b0 Objective-C is the primary programming language you use when writing software for OS X and iOS. It's a superset of the C programming language and provides object-oriented capabilities and a dynamic runtime.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ASSEMBLY-LANGUAGE: \b0 Assembly language is used to directly manipulate hardware, access specialized processor instructions, or evaluate critical performance issues. These languages are also used to leverage their speed advantage over high level languages for time-sensitive activities such as high frequency trading.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}FORTRAN: \b0 FORTRAN was designed for scientists and engineers, and has dominated this field. For the past 30 years FORTRAN has been used for such projects as the design of bridges and aeroplane structures, it is used for factory automation control, for storm drainage design, analysis of scientific data and so on.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}HASKELL: \b0 Designed for teaching, research and industrial applications, Haskell has pioneered a number of programming language features such as type classes, which enable type-safe operator overloading, and monadic IO. Haskell's main implementation is the Glasgow Haskell Compiler (GHC).\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}COBOL: \b0 COBOL was designed for business computer programs in industries such as finance and human resources. Unlike some high-level computer programming languages, COBOL uses English words and phrases to make it easier for ordinary business users to understand.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MATLAB: \b0 Millions of engineers and scientists worldwide use MATLAB for a range of applications, in industry and academia, including deep learning and machine learning, signal processing and communications, image and video processing, control systems, test and measurement, computational finance, and computational biology.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ADA: \b0 Ada improves code safety and maintainability by using the compiler to find errors in favor of runtime errors. Ada is an international technical standard, jointly defined by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC).\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}TYPESCRIPT: \b0 TypeScript may be used to develop JavaScript applications for both client-side and server-side execution (as with Node. js or Deno). Multiple options are available for transpilation. The default TypeScript Compiler can be used, or the Babel compiler can be invoked to convert TypeScript to JavaScript.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}PASCAL: \b0 Pascal allows the programmers to define complex structured data types and build dynamic and recursive data structures, such as lists, trees and graphs. Pascal offers features like records, enumerations, subranges, dynamically allocated variables with associated pointers and sets.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}LISP: \b0 Lisp, an acronym for list processing, is a functional programming language that was designed for easy manipulation of data strings. As one of the oldest programming languages still in use, Lisp offers several different dialects and has influenced the development of other languages.\b\tab\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}LUA:\b0  Lua can be used in everyday applications to extend the existing functionality or create new features and functions. Some popular games, programs, and services that use Lua are Dark Souls, Fable II, Garry's Mod, Wireshark, VLC, Apache, and Nginx Web Servers\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}BASIC: \b0 BASIC has frequently been used in teaching the introductory concepts of programming with a working language. BASIC continues to be widely used because it can be learned quickly, its statements are easy to read by other programmers, and support is available on most operating systems (OS).\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ERLANG: \b0 Erlang is a programming language used to build massively scalable soft real-time systems with requirements on high availability. Some of its uses are in telecoms, banking, e-commerce, computer telephony and instant messaging.\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 ALGOL:\b0  Formerly known as IAL, ALGOL is short for algorithmic language. It is a family of portable programming languages for scientific computations that had a strong influence on other languages. Additionally, ALGOL was used as the standard method for creating algorithms by the ACM in textbooks and academia for over 30 year\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}SMALLTALK:\b0 Smalltalk was the first graphical language tool to support live programming and advanced debugging techniques such as on-the-fly inspection and code changes during execution in a very user-friendly format.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}CLOJURE: \b0 Clojure is a practical and pragmatic language. It helps to organize a fast and efficient software development process. So, I can recommend it for rapid prototyping and lean startups. It's an important feature for building extensible and flexible systems.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}PROLOG: \b0 Prolog has been used largely for logic programming, and its applications include natural language understanding and expert systems such as MYCIN. Prolog is notably a so-called nonprocedural, or declarative, language in the sense that the programmer specifies what goals are to be accomplished but not\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}JULIA:\b0 Julia is a general-purpose programming language, while also originally designed for numerical/technical computing. It is also useful for low-level systems programming, as a specification language, High-level Synthesis (HLS) tool (for hardware, e.g. FPGAs), and for web programming at both server and client side.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}GROOVY: \b0 Groovy is a dynamic object-oriented programming language for the Java virtual machine (JVM) that can be used anywhere Java is used. The language can be used to combine Java modules, extend existing Java applications and write new applications.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}SCHEME:\b0 Scheme Programming language is typically used to write to write text editing programs, analyse and optimise application-based compilers, write drivers for graphics cards, develop operating systems, and many more.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ELIXIR: \b0 Elixir was aimed for large-scale sites and apps. Elixir uses features of Ruby, Erlang, and Clojure to develop a "high-concurrency" and "low-latency" language. Elixir was designed to handle large data volumes. Elixir is used in telecommunication, eCommerce, and finance industries.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}APL:\b0  APL is an array-oriented programming language that will change the way you think about problems and data. With a powerful, concise syntax, it lets you develop shorter programs that enable you to think more about the problem you're trying to solve than how to express it to a computer.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}NIM: \b0 Nim is a multi-paradigm programming language that offers powerful customization options with the ability to compile to everything from C to JavaScript. It can be used in any project and illustrates that you don't have to sacrifice performance for expressiveness!\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}EIFFEL:\b0  Eiffel is a purely object-oriented language but provides an open architecture for interfacing with "external" software in any other programming language. It is possible for example to program machine- and operating-system level operations in C.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}SIMULA: \b0 Simula is based on the language ALGOL 60, and its purpose was the simulation of complex computing systems. Simula was the first programming language to use objects, classes, subclasses, and inheritance, and is considered to be the first object-oriented programming langua\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}FORTH: \b0 Forth is used in the Open Firmware boot loader, in space applications such as the Philae spacecraft, and in other embedded systems which involve interaction with hardware.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ABAP: \b0 ABAP is a programming language developed by SAP for the development of business applications in the SAP environment. The ABAP Objects component makes object-oriented programming possible. ABAP is the programming interface of Application Server ABAP (AS ABAP) in SAP NetWeaver.\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}TCL: \b0 Tool command language (Tcl) is a powerful scripting language with programming features. It is available across Unix, Windows and Mac OS platforms. Tcl is used for Web and desktop applications, networking, administration, testing, rapid prototyping, scripted applications and graphical user interfaces (GUI).\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\par
}
 